# ADR 1: Use Istio Service Mesh for securing TCP traffic between Kubernetes services
Date: Late 2019

## Status
Accepted

## Context
A client's internal event detection app they're developing (hereon referred to as Cobra 🐍) runs on self-hosted Kubernetes on VMware in an air-gapped datacenter. It's composed of several Java/NodeJS HTTP services and a MySQL database, all running in the aforementioned Kubernetes cluster.

It's required that all communication between Cobra's services be encrypted. The current solution to this requirement is a private  certificate authority hosted on a vSphere VM with a collection of bash scripts that automate the provisioning of short term client certificates for each service in the app. These scripts provision the client and trusted root certificates and ship them in the Docker images for each service.

Managing the CA server and its automation takes a lot of time from the client's engineering team and they find the scripts and the entire process to be quite brittle. Often times, an engineer will need to `kubectl exec` or open a shell to a Kubernetes Pod to troubleshoot certificate errors thrown by Java applications when deployments go awry.

## Decision
We will replace the private CA server and automation with Istio service mesh. Service mesh projects like Linkerd, Istio, and Consul Connect have recently become more mature and offer a more elegant solution to automated encryption between services, along with a host of other security and traffic management features. 

We will utilize Istio's automated mutual TLS and private CA to enforce encryption between Cobra's services.

We will utilize Istio's automatic sidecar injection so the Docker images for each Cobra service don't need to be aware of certificates or encryption.

## Consequences
Pros:
* Istio removed the need for complex and brittle private certificate authority automation.
* Istio further strengthened security posture as it provides many defense-in-depth features like zero-trust networking without the need to change application code or configuration.
* Istio's Gateway/Virtual Service alternative to the Kubernetes Ingress primitive was welcomed as an alternative to NGINX Ingress Controller.

Cons:
* Istio is a complex system that requires the time of few engineers to learn and maintain.
* It took Engineers a long time to understand Istio and its many Kubernetes Custom Resources.
